Tudian Francis
Carolyn Schwarz
The Good Life

First, see my rewording below. Remember, the literature review is examining and analyzing a body of literature and the changes I made reflect this focus. Second, I am concerned that a focus on self-image and body weight is a little far removed from the subject matter of the course. It is fine to write your review on literature that examines self-image and body weight in relation to well-being and ill-being. So again, the focus of the review would be on literature on “self-image and body weight in relation to feelings of well-being and ill-being.” Does this make sense? Go back and look at the sources and see if you can have this focus. I think some of it might be more implicit than explicit in what’s published. If you don’t think there is enough there, you will have to submit a proposal for another topic.
Literature Review of Fatness Stigma and Well-being

In a world where our society is highly influenced by social media, people tend to be obsessed with the idea of self-image. Self-image is defined as the idea one has of their abilities, appearance and personality. As humans, it’s natural to be concerned with one’s appearance whether it’s by how they are presented on social media, through the common uses of Instagram, Facebook and Snapchat or by being profoundly cautious of how much they weigh, affects how one conceptualize themselves as individual autonomic beings living in a media driven society. The thought of being ‘fat’ or even being overweight is something that a lot of people have issues coming to terms with. The aim of this critical literature review is examine literature that explores self image and weight in relation to well-being. Some of this literature has focused on how individuals perceive the idea of their self-image in terms of their weight and how they define what it means to be overweight.  How do they see themselves versus how others sees them, and why are people in society so fascinated with the concept of the “summer body”?  How does it affect or doesn’t affect their self-esteem, and more importantly, how does this idea of self-image goe alongside how they go about achieving their happiness and well-being? The results of an anthropological study by Brewis et al. reveals the idea of being ‘publically misfitted’ and the stigma that is created and felt when a person is overweight or even the issues that arise after weight loss. This study addresses the lack of accommodations and empathy when it comes to dealing with being extremely overweight, and the effects it has on one’s perception of their embodied health.

Brewis, Alexandra., Sarah Trainer, SeungYong Han, and Amber Wutich. 2017. “Publically
Misfitting: Extreme Weight and the Everyday Production and Reinforcement of Felt Stigma.” Medical Anthropology Quarterly 31: 257-276.
Preliminary sources

Blanchflower, David G., Bert Van Landeghem, and Andrew J. Oswald. 2009. “Imitative Obesity
and Relative Utility.” Journal of the European Economic Association 7(2/3): 528-538.

Cornelisse-Vermaat, Judith R., Gerrit Antonides, Johan A.C. Van Ophem, and Henriette Massen
Van Den Brink. 2006. “Body Mass Index, Perceived Health, and Happiness: Their Determinants and Structural Relationships.” Social Indicators Research 79(1): 143-158.

Costa-Font, J and Mireia Jofre-Bonet. 2013. “Anorexia, Body Image and Peer Effects: Evidence
from a Sample of European Women.” Economica, 80(317): 44-64

Rosenblum, Gianine D and Michael Lewis. 1999. “The Relations among Body Image, Physical
Attractiveness, and Body Mass in Adolescence.” Child Development 70(1): 50-64.